# Creating Zoning Maps Using Carto, Python & Pandas
This lab focused on zoning laws in Washington DC so that we can understand the process of gentrification and eviction rates in the urban housing market. We do this by creating a map of the areas which have zoning exemptions in DC according to the categories constructed by the "Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)”. The dataset is found on [OpenData D.C.](https://opendata.dc.gov/) and aims to show the benefits of urban development by offering amenities such as affordable housing, improved public transportation, etc. in exchange for zoning exemptions.
We use pandas and geopandas, which allows use a data analysis package on a geocoded dataset. This was my first time using the shapely, rtree and geopandas packages on Python. These are used for to convert textual data to points and polygons, enable spatial join and use data analysis tools to create an output which has spatial data. 
While the plot function on Python enabled us to visualize the PUDs according to their zoning categories, using the crosswalk tables, and followed by the PUDs which had affordable housing, Carto is an excellent way to create maps and publish results. I have only ever opened shape files on ArcGIS, but it was nice to use an open-source software using which the results can be shared easily. The editing feature on Carto is also user-friendly and I can see myself using more of this tool in the future when creating and circulating my map products. 


# Citation
This tutorial was originally created by [Nicole Janeway Bills](https://twitter.com/nicole_janeway), who provides a nice [video walkthrough on YouTube here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9G2T4CPYVM&feature=emb_logo). Our instructor changed some of the code slightly to deal with different inputs (Open Data D.C.'s file formatting has changed since the original tutorial); added more background context on the scenario, and added the use of Carto for a final output.
